>> Will Sentance: We are writing, folk,
our increment function, our login function
which we know I use the one is gonna have
access to through the proto reference.
We are declaring them separately
from the function that when code
gives us that object into user one that
has access to those shared functions.
So what?
It doesn't matter, it's fine.
But in other languages,
you can do those first two parts,
the function that they call it constructs
the object, the userCreator function here.
And the methods, the functions that will
be available on that constructed object,
not directly but
indirectly through the proto reference.
You can do this assignment,
all bundled in one go.
David, what's the construct that lets
us bundle this assignment in one go?
>> David: Class.
>> Will Sentance: It's called a class.
So now, JavaScript says, no, no, no.
I wanna mask even more, I feel so ashamed
of my underlying prototype or nature.
I'm gonna mask even more, and
I'm gonna allow you to rename what is
clearly a function object combo
with a prototype property, a class.
And I'm gonna allow you to
not even have to manually go
usercreator.prototype.increment as
a function.
But instead,
just literally list off any functions, and
JavaScript's gonna take care of putting
them into this prototype object.
So I'm just gonna list, I'm just gonna
say, and by the way, I'm gonna give this
function, the one that constructs
the object, I'm gonna give it a subtitle.
I don't know why, but
I'm gonna give it a subtitle, constructor.
>> Will Sentance: And I declare that
bit first, inside the class structure.
And then I'm gonna list off any functions,
any and
all functions that I want
stuck in this object here.
I don't even have to say,
put them in the prototype.
JavaScript's so ashamed of it's
prototypal nature, but look.
All right, we're writing our shared
methods separately from our object
constructor itself,
the one that creates the object, right?
We call user constructor, we don't run
this bit, we run the function bit.
Well, that constructs
an object into user1.
We're writing the constructor
bit separately.
Other languages do this all in one place,
year 2015, that's a two sub two.
When you get to subclassing,
I like this, here,
I feel it's a little
bit masking the truth.
Let's see it side by side.
Here it is.
So there's our solution three,
which we're now quite familiar with.
UserCreator function is declared.
It automatically gets
an object attached to it.
Which we have a prototype
problem automatically.
It's in there that we put
any functions that we want
the returned object from calling
userCreator [SOUND] to have access to.
Cool it again using 20.
It will have access to and
we put them in there using that
notation stick him in an object.
Solution 4 says save yourself doing that.
I'm gonna do it for you.
So it's JavaScript.
I'm going to grab any
functions that you list
inside of this new
construct known as a class.
Any functions you list, I'm gonna grab
them, and I'm gonna put them in there.
But now you're not gonna put them manually
there yourself I'll put them there
for you.
Why can't we do it ourselves,
who knows, who knows?
Actually, once I gave this talk, someone's
like please stop criticizing classes,
they're very important best practices.
So we'll see classes make our lives much,
much easier, especially in sub-classing.
But it is a facade, it is a fake.
If you know other languages that
are actually classical object oriented in
their nature, traditional
object-oriented languages, they are not,
under the hood, putting methods in
a prototype object, believe me.
But that's exactly what we're doing here.
So we rename the function bit
of the function-object combo,
we rename it constructor.
But that just means grab that bit, and
put it in the function bit of
the function object combo.
And then any functions which we were
manually putting in the object bit of
the function object combo in the prototype
object well they're just listed off.
We really need to put the word function.
I think we can technically
put semi-colons after them,
and that works but we don't put a comma,
we just list them off.
And they'll all be grabbed
one-by-one as we go,
when we declare the class these
bits are done immediately.
They're not called,
they're just saved immediately.
We grab the first bit just like we do
over here, store it as a function.
It immediately gets a prototype
property on its object version, and
then we grab these functions and
then we put them in that prototype object.
I know I'm repeating myself here a bit,
but it really is just so
astonishingly identical.
We just now rename the function object
combo a clause, and we wrap it as such.
All right folks, I'm not gonna walk
through this right hand side here.
We're gonna see it much more in
subclassing, so do not fear.
We will see it.
Take a look at this,
it what's in syntactic sugar,
that means nothing has
changed under the hood.
Now we'll say this, when it comes to
subclassing, classes implements in
things under the hood quite differently,
but there's nothing changed side by side.
When I call userCreator, now I call
the function just as I did before,
but now it's gonna subtitle constructor,
but it's not changed.
When I call increment I look for
it on user1.
It's not there.
I reckon the proto I look up to
user-created.prototype where it is.
Nothing's changed.
Those increment log in,
look at it it's sitting there.
They're not just sitting there,
they were grabbed and
stuck in that prototype object.
Line 1, declare class.
Class it comprises a function and object.
Line 2,
put the function bit which knows it's
exactly the same as a previous function.
Put it in and
give it the subtitle constructor.
When you call userCreator,
run this bit, it's the same.
Grab increment, put in
the userCreator.prototype, put it in.
Grab login,
put it in userCreator.prototype login.
Everyone see these are absolutely
identical under the hood.
Okay, I'm leaving at that for now.
And then after the break, after lunch,
we will build out a full clause
diagram out from scratch.
But we will do it in a more interesting
setting of using that to generate, or
to be this sort o,
to save us doing some work of creating,
what I think it was kind
of sub types of users.
So we've got our uses here, after lunch
we're going to see, well hold on,
what if I want to have users, user 1,
user 20, user 3, but also paid users?
Paid users are gonna be a lot
like regular users, but
they're going to have
some bonus properties and
some bonus functionality that's
only applicable to them.
Well, when we build those users,
paid users,
we're gonna probably wanna use some of the
previous work that we did to build users.
And that is known as subclassing, and
there this new syntactic sugar of the
class does make our lives much cleaner.
But also masks even more of
what's happening under the hood.
But we are gonna understand it all.